Status: #literature 
Tags: `=this.file.tags`
Links: `=this.file.outlinks`

---
## Assumptions

This is done assuming the gantry will be belt-driven, the equation for the torque is:

$$ \tau=\sum F\cdot r_\text{p} $$

The force sum includes 3 main contributions: acceleration and inertia, friction, and gravity.

$$ \sum F=F_\text{a}+F_\text{f}+F_{\text{g}} $$

The main bulk of assumptions will be made breaking down each of these components.

### Acceleration

This force is generated by changing the velocity of the gantry parts. There are 2 parts of which’s mass is needed in this calculation: the mass of the moving Y/X rail $m_\text{r}$ and the mass of the manipulator $m_\text{m}$. I will base the acceleration on the outermost motors that control the rail, since this will necessarily be higher than the innermost one. I will go with a conservatively large acceleration estimate of $3g$, or $29.43$m/s², common to smaller systems with lower mass.

$$ F_\text{a}=(m_\text{r}+m_\text{m})a=3g(m_\text{r}+m_\text{m}) $$

### Friction

There are going to be many sources of friction in this setup, including but not limited to:

- Internal motor frictions, like rotor frictions, friction added from encoders, and cogging if using a gearbox. This is extremely difficult to estimate, but one method allows the calculation of dynamic friction in the motor at a given speed: the conservation of power. There are 4 quantities that contribute to power: electrical power in, heat losses, dynamic friction losses, and shaft power, creating the law:
    
    $$ VI-RI^2-\omega_\text{max}\tau_\text{f}-\omega_\text{max} \max(\tau_\text{s})=0 $$
    
    Where $I$ is the rated current of the motor, $V$ is the rated voltage of the motor, $R$ is the resistance of the motor coil, $\omega_\text{max}$ is the rotational speed of the max shaft/pull-out torque (see [stepper torque curves](https://www.orientalmotor.com/stepper-motors/technology/speed-torque-curves-for-stepper-motors.html)), and $\tau_\text{s}$ is the pull-out torque. Rearranging this equation for $\tau_\text{f}$ gives:
    
    $$ \tau_\text{f}=\frac{VI-RI^2}{\omega_\text{max}}-\max(\tau_\text{s}) $$
    
    This isn’t very helpful since the motor needs to be known in order to calculate this, this can be a good way to check design values.
    
- Rail-Belt contact friction. Not very high at low speeds, but does exist when system is static. On doing some research this is negligible.
    
- Bearing friction. There are 6 bearings in the single-belt, 4 motor design, and 4 in the traditional belt driven design. I will choose 6 for this because it is more conservative. The frictional torque $M$ generated by a bearing follows the law:
    
    $$ M=\frac{2Pf}{D} $$
    
    where $P=F_r X_r$ is the equivalent load (ignored axial) on the bearing, $F_r=2T$, with $T$ being the belt tension, $X_r$ is the radial load factor for the bearing, $f=0.005$ is the friction factor (0.005 for conservative estimate), and $D$ is the bore diameter (TBD). This will add an amount of force equal to:
    
    $$ F_\text{f,b}=6 Mr_\text{pulley}=24\frac{TX_rf}{D}r_\text{pulley} $$
    
    The belt tension is a design parameter that should be tested for optimal values. Good values of tension seem to be ~250N for systems of similar size, but we need to test this. From [this calculator](https://www.tribology-abc.com/calculators/pe.htm), values of $X_r$ range from 0.4-0.6, so I will use 0.6. I will take $D=0.005$m for this, and $r_\text{pulley}=0.0093$m. Thus, this force is = 33.5N for these values, not exactly negligible.
    

### Gravity

I’m going to assume the system has the Y-control on the outside, and X-control on the inside, since that is the most conservative. The force from gravity is then:

$$ F_\text{g}=(m_\text{r}+m_\text{m})g $$

### Factor of Safety

A FOS of 2-3 is desirable for this, since it gives breathing room for errors and operational outliers. This gives a total equation for required torque as:

$$ \tau=FOS\left[4g(m_\text{r}+m_\text{m})r_\text{p}+\frac{VI-RI^2}{\omega_\text{max}}-\max(\tau_\text{s})+24\frac{TX_rf}{D}r_\text{pulley}r_\text{p}\right] $$

### Power

The power will be a function of torque and the speed at which we desire the gantry to move, in this fashion:

$$ P=\tau\cdot\omega=\tau \frac{v}{r_\text{p}} $$

This is the mechanical power, not electrical.

## Design Procedure

1. Calculate torque required without using internal motor friction. Decide on a velocity requirement (use operation times maybe). Torque curves do not show internal friction, so this can’t be designed against.
2. Convert the velocity to RPM to find the pull-out torque on the torque curve. Choose a motor that stays 20-30% above the calculated requirement in the vicinity of that RPM.

## Requirements

What I need to solve this problem is pulley radius, motor pulley radius, mass of both the x rail and manipulator, velocity (we can just choose this) and number of bearings and bore diameters of them.
# References
